# 2023.04.23 Cube Draft

## Decklists

* Josh - Gw Lands/Ramp [Decklist](https://www.moxfield.com/decks/Y3_H4YFdIkmcmROYDOiBvg)
* Lily - B Reanimator (Missing Decklist)
* Alex M - RB Kiki [Decklist](https://www.moxfield.com/decks/HlTvuYZqnUCUcxR5k5_whg)
* Alex L - UB Storm [Decklist](https://www.moxfield.com/decks/y9xKL0SfIUK4vncWTTS6bA)
* Jake - URb Tempo [Deckilst](https://www.moxfield.com/decks/2-9vsYqt3Ui9p7P6o3LB8g)
* Sam - RW Aggro [Decklist](https://www.moxfield.com/decks/r81Gl2jSy0urBFQPaHta9w)
* May - GBrw Midrange [Decklist](https://www.moxfield.com/decks/1uFgEd3rfkaT5mPZZghGOA)
* Greg - UW Tempo [Decklist](https://www.moxfield.com/decks/nky1FGJE80O1IlkFEt3i2g)

## Draft

### Pre-Draft

Not too much planning going into here. A lot of same ideas as my (Last Draft)[https://github.com/JoshPlaysGames/MTG-Game-Notes/blob/main/Games/2023_02_26_Cube.md] where I was looking for something tempo based, either in UR, or Esper. I expected people to over fight over Blue so I only wanted to follow that if I thought I could cut it really hard Pack 1, and the table seemed to be a lot of players who wanted to play a lot of colors last time, so I thought trying to fit some light mana disruption or just a full-blown Wildfire deck was a good option.

I also noticed last time that I thought people gravitated heavily towards black and talked a lot about how powerful/enjoyable their black cards were. I expected at least one player to try to force some sort of reanimator graveyard strategy, and possibly another try to force some sort of storm or Doomsday, so aside from some black removal elements I wasn't really expecting to get much out of black.

Also just for fun Greg and I swapped our second pack (before the draft) joking that we would give the other player "our good one". This was humerous later.

### Pack 1

First pack was honestly pretty lackluster. First pick had a Primeval Titan, and then a lot of cards I would be happy to play but didn't feel strong enough to go in that direction. Notably the only green card was Harmonize so I felt like there was a reasonable chance that I could cut green to the left. Felt like I could play Titan in a Wildfire list, as well as either Green Ramp or Lands, or even as a top end in some sort of Jund shell or as a Bgr Reanimator with the slower effects like Sneak or Recurring Nightmare so it felt safe. Notably I saw Burning of Xinye, but it didn't feel strong enough to first pick on it's own and I figured it likely might wheel.

Next pack I saw Wildfire but took Dryad and Fyndhorn to keep my options open and wanted to see if it plus the Burning wheeled and I knew that deck was open. Oracle / Reclaimer made me feel solidly in Green, but maybe leaning more towards midrange strategies like Gu tempo or Jund. At this point was looking for some good fetches.

Took Joraga because there wasn't another great option, but didn't love it because it felt not great with Dryad and died to any sweepers (including Wildfire) that I might want to play, but then Ramunap felt great with Reclaimer or went along with my looking for fetches.

Origional pack comes back with no Harmonize but did have Burning, and Wildfire wheeled as well. Took Rakdos Signet to keep Jund options open and Rampant Growth, wanting to look for some 4 mana payoffs that didn't die to Wildfire (Planeswalkers, Bitterblossom, etc)

**Picks:**
1. Primeval Titan
1. Dryad of the Ilysian Grove
1. Fyndhorn Elves
1. Oracle of Mul Daya
1. Elvish Reclaimer
1. Joraga Treespeaker
1. Ramunap Excavator
1. Stomping Grounds
1. Burning of Xinye
1. Wildfire
1. Rakdos Signet
1. Rampant Growth
1. Scavenging Ooze
1. Walking Ballista
1. Kargan Dragonlord

### Pack 2
The pack I swapped with Greg, this opened up to be complete garbage. It was a bunch of red Aggro cards (but not Lightning Bolt, maybe Noble, Chain Lightning?) Some WW pip white cards, and I think the Green cards were Wall of Blossoms and Cultivate? Refusing to first pick Cultivate even though it might have been correct I took Bayou and I think passed one (useful) color fetch.

Second pack I grabbed a Stage, which was a little sad because Depths didn't feel like it fit all that well into a Wildfire list but had a hard time passing it with Reclaimer in my deck. Then Rofellos, Cradle, and Hierarch also felt like I was splitting my deck too much but made the dorks from P1 seem good. (I actually paused on Cradle because Rofellos felt like it ramped out Wildfire even if just a ritual, but Cradle post Wildfire probably makes no mana, which made me pause for a second.

Power Pack came around to me here and I was leaning towards taking Black Lotus if it somehow was still in. I thought it could let me Wildfire out of nowhere with Green (or Wildfire + Ramunap in the same turn) or if I just wanted to try to pick up a Grave Titan it helped with fixing. I really wanted to take Time Walk but couldn't justify it with no reasonable blue fixing yet. I got a 6th pick Sol Ring though so I was plenty happy with that.

The Tropical Island the pick after was probably incorrect but I was feeling bitter, then Crucible (the pack I traded with Greg which was perfect 7th pick for me) + Cultivate felt like I was giving up on playing pure G elves/ramp and more just try to grind out some opponents. Rest of the picks reflect that game plan in this pack.

Power Pack pick 2 I was passed Time Walk and I almost instanly snapped it up, but then the other two cards were Mox Emerald and Library, and specifically the Green mox just felt too important for both the Wildfire version, Lands version, and Elves versions of my deck to pass.

**Picks:**
1. Bayou
1. Thespain's Stage
1. Elvish Mystic
1. Rofellos Llanowar Emmisary
1. Gaea's Cradle
1. Noble Hierarch
1. Sol Ring (Power Pack)
1. Tropical Island
1. Crucible of Worlds
1. Cultivate
1. Ugin, the Spirit Dragon
1. Taiga
1. Trygon Predator
1. Titania, Protector of Argoth
1. Sakura Tribe Elder
1. Mox Emerald (Power Pack)
1. Auger of Autumn

Notably as far as I can tell this was the pick order of the power pack:
1. Mox Ruby (Sam)
1. Ancestral Recall (Jake)
1. Timetwister (Alex L - Baited)
1. Demonic Tutor (Alex M)
1. Black Lotus (Lily)
1. Sol Ring (Josh)
1. Mox Sapphire (Greg)
1. Mana Crypt (May)
1. Mox Pearl (Sam)
1. Mox Diamond (Jake)
1. Mox Jet (Alex L)
1. Mana Vault / Grim Monolith (Alex M)
1. Mana Vault / Grim Monolith (Lily)
1. Mox Emerald (Josh)
1. Time Walk (Greg)
1. Library of Alexandria (May)

Interesing picks in my opinion. I don't know what everyone's card pool looked like at this point, but I think if I were Sam I would have taken Lotus first and tried to wheel Ruby (but I'm not sure on this). Jake I think should have taken Time Walk over Ancestral first pass. Alex L I only have the utmost respect for taking a Timetwister he could probably have wheeled over Lotus. Lily taking lotus I think is correct here. Greg I _also_ think should have taken Time Walk (although more debatable since he likely wouldn't see an on-color mox back). Sam got lucky with his 2nd color Mox coming back. Jake I think for sure should have taken Time Walk unless his fixing was just abysmal at this point. Alex L taking Jet is correct, I think Alex M at least taking Mox Emerald was better than whatever his 2nd pick was. I don't know Lily's exactly list and how much a colorless ritual helps get out a reanimator target? Greg shockingly gets the Time Walk anyway, and May takes Library (which I don't know that it was correct to play?)

### Pack 3

Slamming Craterhoof into Finale pretty solidly makes me feel like I'm not playing Wildfire in my list anymore. Nissa feels good either in lands, and she along with the Strip Mine, Fetch, and Wasteland all combo with Titania as well as my Crucible + Ramanup so I don't even remember what else was in the pack since those were instant picks. Pick up some more lands matters/payoffs (Armageddon seems like the "better" Wildfire in my deck with all the dorks I'm playing), and the Kodama's Reach pick was the past pack I had a chance to see Dark Depths and I realize I have to give up on that dream this time. 14th Pick Plow was great though, made me feel like I had a solid mana disruption package against slower/control decks.

**Picks:**
1. Craterhoof Behemoth
1. Finale of Devestation
1. Nissa, Who Shakes the World
1. Strip Mine
1. Windswept Heath
1. Wasteland
1. Hornet Queen
1. Armageddon
1. Kodama's Reach
1. Knight of the Reliquary
1. Corser of Kruphix
1. Collector Ouphe
1. Reclamation Sage
1. Plow Under
1. Nighthawk Scavenger

### Post-Draft

I think my analysis of what other people wanted to play was pretty good. 3 players fought for Blue, 5 Players dabbled in Black, and some people who didn't even play black tried and failed to get into reanimator before giving up. Mana fixing as always was in heavy demand, but I was slightly surprised that the artifact mana got snapped up to quickly despite no one really playing an artifact deck? I honestly wasn't sure at the end of the draft if I was going to try to play Armageddon/Wildfires or the mana dorks. I actually think if I came up against an aggro deck that I couldn't out pace or a really heavy control deck I would have boarded into a configuration something like (THIS)[https://www.moxfield.com/decks/gh8kS6jV6kOWwBFlPz0ZCw]. There were a fair amount of anti-synergies but the Wildfires felt like just such lights out against some decks and if I could stick a Crucible Effect afterwards I could just grind the long game.

## Games

### Round 1 vs Sam (2-0)

First game were slow starts for both of us I got a Titania followed by Strip Mine + Reclaimer to start building elementals. He curved up into a Sun Titan which undid my Strip Mine but him swining with Titan where I could trade an Elemental + Oracle combined with landing Crucible the next turn sealed it up.

Second game he had a very fast start and was able to remove my turn 2 Rofellos to slow me down. Brought me to 5 before I managed to lands a Primevil Titan. He had Humility and we traded 1/1s for a while until I drew Ugin and managed to Ultimate to get me out of danger and close out the game with Finale to buff my 1/1s.

### Round 2 vs May (2-1)

Probably the most insane opening hand kept 2 Lands, Rofellos, Plow Under and Hornet Queen. Lost the die roll

Turn 1 (Draw Mox Emerald) - Forest, Mox, Rofellos
Turn 2 (Draw Cradle) - Forest, Plow your two Lands
Turn 3 (Drew some Creature) - Forest, Hornet Queen
Turn 4 (Drew Finale) - Cradle, Finale for 9, attack for 51 damage

2nd game I kept Sol Ring + Thespian Stage, Cradle as my only lands (Boarded Stage in as a fun instand speed-response for Hexmage on Depths), had Reclaimer, Oracle? and Titan in my opening hand. Copied a forest turn 1 into Cradle Reclaimer turn 2, Braids kept me off 4 mana by saccing reclaimer into Hymn to pick apart my hand. I die to Bloodbraid and Dauthi Voidwalker always feeling like I'm 1-2 turns behind.

3rd Game I get another Rofellos into early Plow Under, and then assemble a Strip Mine into Finale for Ramanup to lock out the game.

### Round 3 vs Alex L (2-0)

Game 1 I get Mana Dork into Dryad into turn 3 Nissa and just beatdown over 3 turns.

Game 2 he resolves an early Vendillion Clique off of a Mox Jet that takes my Rofellos, showing Plow Under and Crucible in my hand. A Courser of Kruphix helps keep my life total healthy and shows a Strip Mine on top of my deck. Memory Jar in play but Crucible prevents that from being able to keep me off of it. Some strip mining and dorks later I get a finale for 5-6 and crack in for lethal.

## General Notes

* This deck got almost every card I was looking for. With the exception of a little bit better fixing, Dark Depths or Natural Order (and maybe some Blue so I could splash Time Walk) I don't think anything I could have picked up would have made the cut. Feels good to be pretty much a solo Green player.
* I think a big success of this deck was the consistancy, a lot of people seems to be fighting over archetypes and getting greedy, and I had the explosive starts for unfair wins, backed by a mana denial plan if the game went long.
* Overall I actually think I was mostly afraid of Sam and Greg's decks. Early game removal backed up by some efficient evasive beaters or burn spells for reach to close out the game felt like a weak spot. I heavily considered swapping to a wildefire deck against them and just hoping the sweepers got me there.
