# 2023.02.26 Cube Draft

## Decklists

* Josh - Gw Lands [Decklist](https://www.moxfield.com/decks/bGJUh0rR80G8HBErcY6hEw)
* Lili - UR? Twin [Decklist](https://www.moxfield.com/decks/3MJse4tnh0uuoBwyENrCEQ)
* May - UBWr Control [Decklist](https://www.moxfield.com/decks/M7C0QAwiS0Caxdm9vKEIHw)
* Ezra - WUBRG ... Planeswalkers? Wheels? Stuff? [Decklist](https://www.moxfield.com/decks/fIOjSUy_SE6EvKxQgoOFEQ)
* Greg - BR Reanimator [Decklist](https://www.moxfield.com/decks/gLXLuGtLvkOaah4GW0mCMw)

## Draft

### Pre-Draft

Going into the draft I was looking for Blue based artifacts (w/ Tinker), UR Wildfire, or some U based Planeswalker list (UR, Esper, or UBG). I felt that decks were going to be very strong, and didn't want to rely on key combos (Twin, Storm, Doomsday) would make it to me with people having so many opportunities to hate out cards with such a large card pool. I also anticipated people might get greedy with their manabases, so playing something artifact based with some minor stax or land destruction themes seems both unlikely people would go for those strategies as well as them being pretty flexible to transition into each other (Artifact ramp works well with wildfire, wildfire/armageddon works well with planeswalkers, etc).

### Pack 1

I would say overall the draft went... poorly, and I got saved by a few lucky picks. P1P1 was Tolarian Academy, picking up early Metalworker, Some 2 mana rocks, Snapcaster, and Theiving Skydiver. I notably passed a Wheel of Fortune (didn't wheel), and 2 one mana green dorks (that did), Rofellos (that didn't) and Primevil Titan (which did). It felt like Green was very open. My first pack also had the Academy and 3 very good blue cards that I passed, which made me feel like I was giving bad signals and a lot of them didn't wheel.

At the end of Pack 1 I had picked up my first Wildfire, some Titan + 2 Mana Dorks, and Sundering Titan (felt good in both decks). Felt like I was split between 2 decks but figured with 3 packs left maybe that was okay to commit to one more slowly.

### Pack 2

Pack 2 notable picks were a Thran Dyanmo (picked over Grim Monolith in the same pack), 2nd Wildfire, Crucible, Strip Mine (I think this was Pack 2?), Walking Ballista, and the Lore Keeper. (this was maybe a 3rd or 4th Pick?). I had Snapcaster so I considered one of the Blue Cards, but I didn't have great fixing at this point to feel confidant I would be able to splash it in a green deck - and I thought Sol Ring was stronger in both a Wildfire list and Artifact list. My deck didn't feel so unfair that Black Lotus would pay-off, and the best single card I had to ramp out was probably Primevil Tital (then Sundering Titan) both of which I was fine delaying one turn with Sol Ring). I hoped in 6 people I would be able to wheel a Blue Spell from that pack, but was pretty happy with Mana Vault - though I probably over-estimated it with how slow my plan was. I got a late pick Natural order here as well. I also passed a Ramanup (maybe for the Lore Keeper?) which didn't come around.

### Pack 3 + 4

Pack 3 is probably what saved me, I got maybe 5th pick Dark Depths followed by Thespian Stage. At this point I'd given up on being the "Traditional" Green creatures deck, and was looking for things like a Cradle, Tinker, or more creatures to go with Natural Order. Somewhere in the end of this pack or P4 I picked up the Knight, Reclaimer, and Armageddon and thought I was going to go somewhere in a lands matter deck - but felt pretty bad about Green mana dorks combined with wildfires, and my general lack of finishers (aside from Depths) in Tinker cheese, Planeswalkers, etc. (This is also where I was looking for Crop Rotation, forgetting that it wasn't in the cube). I also was desperatly looking for a Green/White dual to go with my fetches, but only found Horizon Canopy.

## Deckbuilding

Looking ay my pool I had about 17-18 cards for a solid artifact/wildfire based listed in URw, but my mana didn't feel good enough to fit my WG lands matter package into that. Other options was a Gu(w?) ramp deck using Krasis and Knight/Reclaimer to find Academy for a minor mana advantage. But all of my mana rocks didn't produce green (by design I know) or Blue, so that was too much colorless sources to support the deck - especially if I wanted to support Wasteland/Strip Mine + Crucible

## Games

(Will add more detailed notes later)

### Round 1 - vs Lili (2-0)

First game was a Turn 1 strip mine into no 2nd land drop from them, I managed to build a Dark Depths and kill.

Second game I got an early Knight off of a Fetch (and a Wasteland maybe?) putting it out of burn range. It was bounced with opponent's Venser after the first search but I already had the 2nd piece in hand so it didn't matter. I think the correct play was the bounce the Token - but I believe at this point I had Crucible in hand so it likely wouldn't have mattered?

### Round 2 - vs May (2-1)

First game I kept Crucible + Strip mine with a mana dork to accelerate (on the draw), Turn 1 Ragavan + Mox from opponent, T1 I play a Dork (dismembered at end of turn), Briberied on Turn 3 to get my Terastadon blowing up 3 of opponent's own permanents to put me on the fastest clock possible. I blocked chumped with a Reclaimer and after blocks searched up a Depths and then made a Marit Lage to win (opponent had only a hand of 3 lands at this point)

Note: An important match factor here was I had the crucible in hand for the Bribery, which was relevant later. I also think it's possible that given the information either Blowing up 1 of my lands was the correct play, or maybe even better would be to get Primevil Titan to play a slower match as I think that I don't win a longer game against all of the card advantage.

Second Game was me keeping Horizon Canopy, Mana Crypt, Mana Dork, Armageddon, and Crucible. Dork was Dismembered again, opponent played Recall, Jace with 2-3 Brainstorms, and I mostly just died to Mana Crypt activations and only being able to cast 1 colored spell a turn taking 1 damage each time. (I didn't draw a second land until turn 5+. I had options to play the Crucible but I didn't think it would matter and opponent had made a comment that "My deck would be so much better with Excavator/Crucible so I intentionally didn't want to show it.

Note: I actually think that fatesealing me at this point was probably stronger than Brainstorming with Jace - bury anything that is a Depths or Finds Depths. But I don't know what cards were drawn when.

Third Game was turn 1 Strip Mine. Opponent Vindicated my Thespian Stage "If I just kill this you don't have any way to get it back and I get tempo right?". Followed by my playing Crucible and Strip Mine locking. I couldn't find Depths so it was a lot of me killing with a Llanowar Elf over a lot of turns.

### Round 3 - vs Ezra (2-0)

First Game was me assembling an early Crucible + Wasteland and locking opponent out of lands. Another slow game because I can't advance any time they play a land, but turn 7+ was Land + Mox + Talisman, but at that point I was able to assumble Depths and kill.

Second Game was an early Strip Mine, opponent trying to build mana rocks (in reaction to last game I assume) - but I resolved a Knight and tutored up Depths quickly to win. Hilarious turn 1 duress into Knight, Strip Mine, and 5 other lands.

Note: Opponent mentioned that they were able to hold up 2 blue mana instead of searching for Black for the duress/playing talisman and would have been able to Mana Drain the Knight, but misplayed there. I don't know what the subsequent draws would have been for me but it would have likely been a much closer match if that line had played out.

## General Notes

* I think generally my deck not only got saved by a few lucky picks in draft at the end, but also only managed to win with a bit of lucky draws and some misplays from my opponents. Possible that some of those misplays are an effect of the mental game of playing against my threats (Crucible + Strip/Wasteland, and Dark Depths both have large mental impact when you lose to them) - but I don't think my deck was even close to the strongest one drafted.

* I think I correctly value Snapcaster and Skydiver very highly. The nature of the Power Pack means that it's very likely I can get either a Time Walk or an Ancestral which makes Snapcaster just a 2nd copy of those. I don't know if that means I should force Blue (or at least a solid splash) _more_ aggressively with that information - or if other people will catch on and it will become even more contested? Similarly Skydiver is likely always alive because every deck should be playing at least one Mox/Sol Ring/Vault/Crypt.

* I tried to think about how the 6 player 4 pack format impacted this draft but struggled. I think the Red/White "fair" decks probably don't get there as often as they should. Signals also seem pretty hard to send/read - but looking at the decklists after it seemed like everyone was jumping all over the place with their decks.

